# Technical Document

## Data

This app is only as useful as the amount and value of its data! The app should use existing publicly available datasources to fetch **useful** and **reliable** data, these data sources will be the apps *First gen* data. Additionaly, the app should be able to generate its own *Second gen* data, this data will be generated by processing and combining *First gen* data.

Example of *Second gen* data:
*First gen* Datasource X: Team A has scored 2 goals against Team B during their last match.
*First gen* Datasource Y: Team C has scored 3 goals against Team B during their last match.
...
*Second gen* Data: Team B has conceded an average of 2.74 goals in its last ten games.

*First gen* Data will likely make up the bulk of the data since the primary data sources already do some data processing on their own.

### Datasources

- Historical data for previous seasons, matches can be found easily and ofter free of charge. See [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/marcohuiii/english-premier-league-epl-match-data-2000-2025).
- Live feed data is hard to find and costs **ΑΠΑΤΕΩΝΕΣ**. See [API Football](https://www.api-football.com/)

## Data Storage

The server can store data in an SQL Database. Ideally, any data from external datasources should be added to the database to prevent additional costs and imporve performance.

The client devices could cache some data to prevent unecessary refetching.

***

## Backend Logic

### API / Application Logic

The backend will be written in GO for no good reason, we simply said why not. Heads up, we haven't even written a *Hello World!* in GO yet.
The backend will be relatively simple. It will perform data fetching from the DB and connect with the AI Layer that will be written in *Python*?
The Backend will also be responsible for populating the DB with new data as it is provided by *first gen* sources and subsequently generate *second gen* data.

### AI Layer

>*'This is Clown A territory I won't touch'* - Clown B

***

## Frontend

Frontend will be written in JS using a UI library like ReactJS (God help us). Since this app is destined to be used on smartphones UI libraries like React Native can be used as well. Great thing none of us have used such a library before, all the more fun.

A good design will be crucial. With that said someone with some basic UI/UX sense will be useful here.

The app can make use of agressive prefetching to improve performance at the client side whiel hurting the backend. Since the user pool will most likely consist of 2-5 clowns this will be fine.

As mentioned above, caching can also be used to imporove performance on the backend **and** frontend by preventing unecessary API calls. This will save resources at the Backend and time at the Frontend. Caching solution can be something very basic no need to make use of complex caching libraries.

***

## Ideal Alpha version

- [ ] Application can provide static data and use it answer basic questions using LLMs.

> **User**: *'What were the last 6 results for ManU?'*
> **App**: *'ManU has won 7 out of the last 6 matches.'*

- [ ] App can show live stats.
- Score
- Yellow cads
- ...

## Ideal Beta Version

- [ ] Application can analyse and provide post game analysis using LLMs. **AI > Jamie Carragher**

- [ ] Global Chat room where lads can banter.

## Version 1.0

- [ ] Live game analysis uing LLMs.

## Bonus features

- [ ] Gamification. Create Quizzes using AI.

- [ ] Spam Clownzers with the most vile messages possible after every loss.
